Good morning, John.
I am a little bit shocked by how much I like
jigsaw puzzles.
Like, you have noticed that I am a little
bit obsessed with productivity.
We can go ahead and say it.
Sometimes it’s unhealthy.
I tie my self worth to my output, and then
often I tie what I imagine to be
my output to external validation from an audience,
or in economic terms,
or other imperfect surrogates for the magnitude
of “impact,” whatever that is.
A jigsaw puzzle has none of that.
If there is something that has less impact
on the world
than re-assembling an image of a wintertime
scene, I can’t really think of it.
But jigsaw puzzles trick my mind
into thinking that it matters
without any of the responsibility
of it actually mattering.
And that allows me to - get this - relax and
also spend time with friends and family.
And there are lots of different things I like
about puzzles.
I like how it feels like you get to know every
puzzle and they’re all just a little bit different.
And sometimes they’re very different!
And the tricks you develop on one puzzle might
not work for another.
And in these ways, doing a puzzle is like
solving any problem.
No two problems are the same,
but as you get the feel of the shape of a
problem, you get better and better at addressing it.
Puzzles also have the advantage of being finite,
and so you know when you’re done solving it,
which is something that real world problems
tend to not have, unfortunately.
I am unlike a lot of puzzle people who I know in that
taking the puzzle apart is actually my favorite part.
I just love watching the complete order of a puzzle
being almost instantly reverted to complete disorder.
And not because I like love chaos and destruction.
Like a little bit I do.
But mos - but here’s the thing.
I love seeing how hard it is to build something
and how easy it is to destroy it.
Now, that might not sound like a good thought,
but I think it actually is.
Because if it is much easier to destroy than build -
this is mathematically true so you can’t really deny it -
then everything that remains built, every problem
that gets solved, every disease that gets cured,
everything that just works remains that way
only because of human action.
Only because of billions of people placing
puzzle pieces every day, carefully, and thoughtfully.
Obviously, during the Project for Awesome,
we are focused on problems.
And the puzzles we’re solving here are not
puzzles that have the luxury of not mattering.
So, we have to look a lot at the problems,
and they can feel very heavy.
But they need to be looked at,
and they need to be understood.
And we need to support,
the master puzzle-solvers out there
who understand the unique shape
of each one of these things.
Like the people who work at Partners in Health
and Save the Children,
the charities the Project for Awesome is supporting
in its first half.
The puzzle of healthcare isn’t simple anywhere,
but these organizations help communities build
more robust healthcare, decrease illness,
they provide stability, and they make the
world a better place.
Everyone who supports the Project for Awesome
by making a video, supporting a charity,
joining us on the livestream, or getting some
perks at projectforawesome.com/donate…
You are helping put puzzle pieces down
where they most need to be.
The problems of the world can feel like a
weight, but they can also feel like a puzzle that,
yes, we’re never gonna finish, but that
brings a better world with every piece we lay.
And the Project for Awesome, by the way, begins
shortly at noon eastern time!
And you can join us for 48 hours
of fun and fundraising and silliness and thoughtfulness
at projectforawesome.com/live.
John, I will see you on the livestream!
Go to projectforawesome.com/donate to find
our Indiegogo. There are so many cool perks!
And you can get them now and ONLY during the
Project for Awesome.